Atlanta and New York City: two of the biggest and most popular hubs in the entire nation. These two grand cities are home to some of the best companies and brightest employees. They also host some of the world’s most renown colleges, such as New York University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Georgia Institute of Technology, and Emory University. A common problem, one that I am currently facing, is having to decide between these two cities. While they are both great cities with great opportunities, a final decision may come down to the smallest of details. Hence, my program aims to help people who want to compare and/or decide between New York City, New York and Atlanta, Georgia. 
I used multiple datasets from both New York City and Atlanta to assist me in my comparison. I used Crime Data from both cities to help determine which city is safer. I used demographics data, as people often want to go a city where their kind is prevalent. For example, as an Asian, I would want to go to a place with a strong Asian population. I also used general location data from APIs/sources such as Foursquare to help draw visuals and provide a basic understanding. Many of the datasets I just mentioned were readily available through government databases, while for others, I had to perform web scraping and clean up the data. 
After cleaning and preparing the data, which was arguably the hardest part of this project, I was ready for the analysis step. As the coordinates of both cities were found from the program, the target audience would be able to discover the temperatures of both NYC and Atlanta. This was crucial, as climate is a primary factor in where someone might want to live. As an added benefit, I also grouped the New York neighborhoods using Clustering, a popular Machine Learning process. As people often have their preferred venues (Park/Bar/Restaurant/etc.), this part of the program revealed what was available in each of these cities. I also used the Folium tool to represent the clusters in a visual form. Additionally, I used the Crime data from both cities to estimate which city had a higher crime rate or a higher number of total crimes. Finally, I calculated the average population representation of each race in both cities, focusing in on the Asian demographic. Especially after the Asian American hate crimes in Atlanta, many might be curious to find out the exact statistics. 
On that note, my results showed that Asians make up 0.06% of the population in NYC while they make up 2.5% of the population in Atlanta. While neither number is encouraging, this goes to show that Atlanta (in comparison to NYC) is not as bad for a potential Asian resident as it may have seemed due to recent events. Moving on, there were 270688 reported crime in Atlanta from 2009 and 2017, while there were 361740 crimes from 2006 to 2016 in NYC. This means, on average, 32885.5 crimes occurred in NYC per year and 30076.45 crimes occurred in Atlanta per year. However, we have to realize that NYC has a much higher population density than Atlanta. So while NYC does have more crimes per day/month/year, it can be argued that Atlanta is the more dangerous city. Regarding the weather, in Atlanta, it is partly cloudy year round, the summers are hot and humid, and the winters are short, cold, and wet. Hence, for someone who prefers cold weathers, Atlanta might not be the best spot. Meanwhile in NYC, the weather is typically much colder and less humid, meaning it would be less ideal for someone who prefers warm weather. Finally, the clustering showed that NYC has diverse neighborhoods and can suit a wide variety of desired venues, such as parks, restaurants, and bars. Although, it should be noted that most major cities, including Atlanta shares that quality. 
In conclusion, I hope this program and report provided insight on the differences in weather/demographics/crime rates/general location of Atlanta and New York City. I hope to continue developing this program to compare multiple cities at once, and for it to become customizable. One day, hopefully this program allows users across the globe to compare any two cities. 








